<!-- #region -->
# GCCP_2022


----------


This repository contains data, training and testing scripts, models, and figure generation scripts for  "Spectral neural approximations for models of transcriptional dynamics." 

-------

# Repository Contents: 
-----
## Folders

### Data:

Contains data used to train, validate, and test models for kernel weight regression that contain conditional parameter vectors and conditional distributions for 256 unique parameters {${b,\beta,\gamma}$} (corresponding to several thousand conditional parameter vectors and conditional distributions per file). It also contains testing files with 256 unique parameters {${b,\beta,\gamma}$}, the same as those in the correspondingly numbered conditional testing files, and their full joint distributions: 
* 6 train files: <code>256_train_*.npy</code>   (conditional)
* 2 validation files: <code>256_valid_*.npy</code>    (conditional)
* 3 testing files: <code>256_test_*.npy</code>    (conditional)
* 3 full joint distribution testing files: <code>256_test_full_*.npy</code>    (joint)


### Models:

Contains final architecture for kernel weight regression (<code>best_model_MODEL</code> ), as well as models used to test varying the number of kernel functions in <code>kernel_models</code>, nodes in hidden layer in <code>node_models</code>, and number of training parameters in <code>param_models</code>. Contains models used for direct regression in <code>direct_models</code>. 
    
    
### Figs:

Figures used in preprint (generated by notebook <code>Figures.ipynb</code>).

Also contains scripts used to generate results stored in <code>results/</code> for figures: <code>figure*_script.py</code>.

### Results:
Results from figure scripts in <code>figs/</code>. Used to generate figures in <code>Figures.ipynb</code> notebook. 

 -----
## Notebooks

* <code>Figures.ipynb</code> : Generates preprint figures.
* <code>Training_Environment.ipynb</code> : Environment to train model to predict conditional probabilities using kernel weight regression. Allows user to change various model and training configurations and visualize the results on testing data.

----- 
## Python Modules

* <code>train_conditional.py</code>: Contains all functions necessary to train conditional model (kernel weight regression).
* <code>tools_conditional.py</code>: Contains tools to visualize training and testing results and assess performance for kernel weight regression.
* <code>ypred_module.py</code>: Contains predefined function for kernel generating and functions for calculating probabilities for kernel weight regression.
* <code>direct_module.py</code>: Contains model definition, training function, and functions for predicting probabilities for direct regression.
* <code>exact_cme.py</code>: Contains functions for calculating exact solution over grid of user specified size and generating parameters within user specified bounds.
<!-- #endregion -->
